This video is a combination of all the parts
from the “All Stormtrooper Types and Variants”
series for easier viewing.
Because we combined 4 parts into one video,
the list numbering will reset every now and
then.
First are the standard stormtroopers.
They were the most common soldiers of the
galactic empire, and served as ever present
reminders of the absolute power of emperor
palpatine.
They wore all white armor that was designed
to instill fear into the enemy.
It protected them from the environment and
gave them limited protection from blasters.
The standard issue weapon for them was the
E-11 blaster rifle.
They each also possessed a thermal detonator
attached to their lower back.
Standard stormtroopers were usually used to
attack the enemy straight on with speed and
with overwhelming numbers.
Second are the desert stormtroopers, also
known as sandtroopers.
They were equipped with modified armor and
equipment to withstand the harsh climates
of desert planets like Tatooine.
They had additional training in specialized
areas and advanced cooling systems in both
their helmets and suits that offered them
protection from extreme heats.
Their armor was slightly different from regular
stormtrooper’s, having a distinctive diamond-shaped
left knee plate, non-ribbed chest and back
plate connectors as well as reinforced abdominal
plating.
They also wore a SD-48 survival backpack..
Third are the cold assault stormtroopers,
also known as snowtroopers.
They were trained to operate in arctic climates
and wore armor that was specialized to the
climate extremes of frozen worlds such as
Hoth.
To ease breathing in extremely cold atmospheres,
a breather hood enveloped the snowtrooper's
faceplate and fed into the suit liner.
Each trooper was equipped with terrain-grip
boots, a standard utility belt containing
high-tension wire, grappling hooks, ion flares,
additional blaster ammunition, a survival
kit, and ration packs.
The troopers' backpacks carried the main heating
unit, main power cell, communications unit,
and a homing beacon.
Fourth are the Incinerator stormtroopers,
also known as flametroopers or incinerator
troopers.
They wore stormtrooper armor with red markings
that was exceptionally heat-resistant, able
to withstand high temperatures.
They were equipped with flamethrowers.
Imperial flametroopers were sent on missions
where an example needed to be made.
They would march into settlements and burn
them to the ground, leaving nothing standing
and would often burn bystanders alive as well.
Fifth are the Zero-G assault stormtroopers,
also know as spacetroopers.
They wore a two-meter tall set of Zero-G armor
that interfaced with standard stormtrooper
armor.
The suit provided a hermetic seal against
the vacuum of space and propulsion that allowed
spacetroopers to move and fight in space for
extended periods.
They were trained to capture enemy vessels
intact.
The suit allowed them to carry heavy firepower,
turning each trooper into the equivalent of
a light tank.
There was another style of this armor that
was lighter, and was used during the building
of the first death star.
It was basically standard stormtrooper armor
vacuum sealed, with a rebreather unit and
a back-mounted jetpack.
Sixth are the Aquatic assault stormtroopers,
also known as seatroopers or aquatic troopers.
They were used by the Galactic Empire to maintain
a presence on the many aquatic worlds under
its rule.
The armor of the seatrooper was based on the
lightweight scout trooper design.
It was worn over a two-piece environmental
body glove that provides protection from toxic-water
environments.
The seatrooper's armor was pressure-sealed
to a maximum of ten atmospheres and included
a rebreather that allowed them to stay underwater
for more than an hour.
Seatroopers usually used the SG-4 blaster
rifle which was capable of firing miniature
harpoons underwater.
Seventh are the Imperial jumptroopers, also
known as skytroopers or air assault troopers.
They were assigned to the battlefields with
the most treacherous terrain.
They wore standard Stormtrooper armor, though
their shoulders were black and had patches
of red paint on them.
Their armor design was similar to the armor
worn by Commander Cody.
They were equipped with an AJP-400 Hush-About
personal jet pack that allowed them to burst
through the air in short spurts of about 20
seconds and allowed them to hover over a location
for an extended period of time.
They also were also sometimes seen wearing
standard stormtrooper armor with a jetpack.
Eighth are the Scout troopers, also known
as biker scouts.
They were usually used as reconnaissance troops,
spies and survivalists.
They were especially excellent marksmen, and
thus they were regarded as the finest snipers
in service to the Galactic Empire.
Their light armor allowed them to be more
mobile than regular stormtroopers, but offered
less protection.
They usually used blaster pistols or sniper
rifles, depending on their assignment.
Last for Part 1 are the Imperial shock troopers.
They served as elite frontline forces of the
Empire, and also as bodyguards for Emperor
Palpatine himself.
They wore extra heavy plate armor, which provided
them great protection from blaster fire.
Their armor styles would vary, with the red
markings being the most distinctive style
of the shock troopers.
They would usually carry heavy blasters and
rocket launchers.
In some cases, Imperial shock troopers wore
Clone Wars era shock trooper armor.
First are the Magma stormtroopers, also known
as magma troopers.
They were responsible for crushing revolts
and other actions on volcanic mining planets
such as Mustafar And Sullust.
Magma trooper armor was specially designed
to withstand extremely high temperatures,
including some direct contact with volcanic
magma.
Depending on the planet, they sometimes wore
red armor as camouflage.
They usually carried heavy blasters and flamethrowers.
Second are the Riot stormtroopers, also known
as riot troopers.
They were specialized in containing and defusing
insurrectionist scenarios on disobedient worlds.
They were trained for close-combat, and thus
were armed with electro staffs, made from
lightsaber-resistant cortosis.
They were trained along side of the Imperial
Royal Guards, and were just as loyal to the
Emperor.
Third are the Wetland assault stormtroopers,
also known as swamp troopers.
They were trained and equipped to operate
in forested wetlands and other semi-aquatic
environments, such as lakes, rivers, and settlements
built on or near waterways.
They wore upgraded, green armor that allowed
them for easier operations in humid and poisonous
environments.
Their armor was tinted green to allow for
camouflage in forested wetlands.
They were equipped with FC-1 flechette launchers
and also carried rebreathers that allowed
them to breath underwater for a short amount
of time.
Fourth are the Stormtrooper Grenadiers.
They were specialized in the use of grenades
and were equipped with grenade launchers.
They wore a red pauldron and a black bandolier
across their chest.
Another version of Stormtrooper grenadiers
wore regular stormtrooper armor with a backpack
that contained grenades, ammunition, and bacta
products.
Instead of a grenade launcher, they were equipped
with a SE-14 blaster pistol.
Fifth are the Radiation zone assault troopers,
also known as radiation troopers.
They were well equipped to operate in heavy
radiation zones.
They wore silver and black battle armor, that
protected them from radiation, as well as
biological and chemical exposure.
They were usually equipped with a blaster
carbine.
Sixth are the stormsurgeons.
They were tasked with performing dangerous
medical operations in the field, and in combat.
They wore a red pauldron.
Seventh are the Bomb squad stormtroopers,
also known as bombtroopers.
They were trained in the activation and deactivation
of explosive charges.
Bombtroopers wore specially modified heavy
fire-resistant armor for flame precautions.
The armor was strong enough to withstand controlled
explosions and high-velocity shrapnel.
They wore a long hood that covered their faceplate,
and they all wore safety helmets.
Eighth are the EVO troopers, also known as
environmental troopers.
They were equipped with heavy enhanced armor
with breathing tubes, which allowed them to
survive and operate in the most hazardous
of conditions such as extreme heat, acid rivers,
and lightning.
They were equipped with FA-3 flechette launchers.
Last for Part 2 are the dewback troopers,
also known as dewback riders.
They were specialized in riding on the backs
of dewbacks, and were used in destroying lightly
defended buildings and defenses, as well as
attacking hostile combat vehicles.
They were equipped with a flamethrower.
First are the shadow stormtroopers, also known
as shadow troopers or Blackhole stormtroopers.
They wore all black stormtrooper armor that
gave them great protection against blasters,
and they carried cloaking devices that rendered
them invisible for a short period of time.
Shadow stormtroopers were specially trained
in infiltration and ambush tactics, and were
often assigned to extremely classified missions
Second are the shadowtroopers, not to be confused
with the shadow stormtroopers seen previously.
These shadowtroopers were stormtrooper-Dark
Jedi hybrid soldiers.
They were armed with lightsabers powered by
synthetic Sith crystals.
They wore armor made out of cortosis, a mineral
that resisted lightsabers.
Their armor also had limited stealth capabilities.
Shadowtroopers possessed some force abilities,
like force grip and force lighting.
Third are the Phase zero dark troopers.
These soldiers were aged-veteran clones from
the Clone Wars, who had their limbs and organs
removed and replaced with cybernetics.
Many troopers could not cope with the state
of being more machine than man and attempted
suicide.
Dark troopers wore a jump pack and typically
carried a blaster cannon or ARC caster.
Fourth are the Phase one dark troopers, which
were imperial droids.
This droid was little more than a skeletal
frame equipped with a vibrosword attached
to its right arm and a blast shield on its
left.
They possessed basic artificial intelligence.
Though rarely used in combat, they were mainly
used as guards for imperial installations.
Fifth are the Phase two dark troopers, which
were an upgraded version of the phase one
dark troopers.
These droids were equipped with a jump pack
and an assault cannon.
They were heavily armored and were also capable
of being loaded into hyperspace pods for transportation.
They could also be used as an exoskeleton
for regular soldiers as well.
Sixth are the Phase three dark troopers, which
were the last and most powerful dark trooper
droids.
These dark troopers were intended to later
be made into exoskeletons and become the new
armor for the next generation of stormtroopers.
These exoskeletons were supposed to give its
wearer increased firepower, strength, and
durability.
They were armed with a large handheld assault
cannon and two shoulder-mounted seeker missile
launcher racks that were hidden under the
suit's shoulder plates when not in use.
They wore extremely powerful armor that was
nearly indestructible, even against lightsabers.
Seventh are going to be dark trooper class
variants that are very similar and really
only differ by name and how they look.
These will include the Glory-class dark troopers,
Triumphant-class dark troopers, Exogen-class
dark troopers, Victory-class dark troopers,
Oppressor-7 class dark troopers, Oppressor-9
class dark troopers, Black Hole dark troopers,
Urban Assault Dark Troopers, and Inquisitorium
dark troopers.
They were primarily used as city guards, and
relied on a wide variety of weapons, like
the E-11 blaster rifles, EE-3 carbine rifles,
and DXR6 heavy carbines.
They were typically droids, with a few of
them being cyborgs.
They were heavily armored.
The Glory-class dark troopers were one of
the most feared troopers by the rebels, and
the Inquisitorium dark troopers primary worked
with the Inquisitorius branch.
Eighth are the Darktroopers, not to be confused
with the phase zero through three dark troopers,
or the class variant dark troopers seen previously.
These darktroopers were specially trained
stormtroopers empowered with the Dark side
of the Force.
They wore black armor.
Not much else is known about them.
Ninth are the Knighthunters.
They were personally trained by Sith Lords,
and learned to defend themselves against Jedi
force powers.
They were able to block lightsaber attacks,
negate the effects of Force powers, and counter
the extreme athleticism of Jedi.
Knighthunters were usually sent to kill or
capture Jedi.
Tenth are the Novatroopers.
Novatroopers were stormtrooper honor guards.
They wore distinctive black and gold reinforced
stormtrooper armor.
They were assigned to either historically
significant locations such as the Sith burial
grounds, or to guard captured enemy starships.
They were also used as commandos in special
missions, such as infiltrating enemy bases.
Eleventh are the Dark Novatroopers.
They were droids and were programmed with
expertise in boarding operations against enemy
ships and as such were commonly used to board
Rebel Alliance corvettes.
They were heavily armored and were armed with
heavily modified DC-15A blaster rifles.
Twelfth are the Purge Troopers.
They wore a heavy suit of armor similar to
that of the Phase II dark troopers.
They were used to enforce the Empire's rule
in the Anoat sector on behalf of Governor
Adelhard.
Another version of the Purge Troopers was
an early design of the Imperial Dark Trooper
Project.
They were meant to be used against Force-sensitives.
Their primary weapon was an energy blade extending
from their left forearm, along with a shield
to block attacks.
They also possessed a missile launcher on
their right shoulder.
They wore armor made out of Duranium and Cortosis,
which gave them great protection against lightsabers.
Thirteen are the Terror Troopers.
The Terror Troopers were created as cyborg
experiments.
Their masks were designed to invoke the appearance
of General Grievous from the Clone Wars.
They possessed a stun blaster and a cloaking
ability.
They had extremely fast reflexes, which allowed
them to dodge most melee attacks.
Terror Troopers were usually sent into hostile
environments in order to quickly dispose of
targets without leaving a trace.
Fourteen are the Shadow EVO Troopers.
They wore an experimental armor which mixed
elements from both the EVO trooper armor and
shadow trooper armor.
This allowed them to operate in the most hazardous
environments while also having the ability
to turn invisible.
Although they were rarely used, they were
usually sent on operations on worlds which
involved menacing the local inhabitants and
assassinating resistance leaders.
Last for part 3 are the Hazard stormtroopers,
also known as Hazard troopers.
They wore a very heavy suit of body armor
that offered complete immunity to temperature
extremes, immunity to acidic damage, as well
as invulnerability to small-arms fire.
The armor was also a functioning space suit
which could keep the wearer alive in a vacuum
or underwater environment for up to three
days.
Their armor had limited protection to lightsabers
as well.
Hazard stormtroopers, like phase 0 dark troopers,
were cyborgs.
They were usually equipped with either an
Imperial heavy repeater or a Stouker concussion
rifle.
First is the Imperial Commando Special Unit.
This unit was comprised of clones, and was
one of the most elite units in the Imperial
Military.
They were mainly used in hunting down surviving
Jedi and clone deserters.
Their armor provided far better protection
than regular Stormtrooper armor, and included
special features like deflector shields.
They usually were equipped with the DC-17m
rifle.
Second are the storm commandos, also known
as Imperial commandos or shadow scouts.
Storm commandos were tasked to instigate uprisings
on enemy systems and to subdue insurrections
on Imperial-held worlds.
They relied on stealth over brute force during
their operations.
Their armor was based on the scout trooper's
light armor and was usually black.
They carried a cloaking device, that allowed
them to turn invisible.
They sometimes wore shock trooper armor when
protection was valued over mobility.
They usually were equipped with an E-11 blaster,
and also used flamethrowers if the situation
required it.
Third are the Imperial Navy commandos.
They were lightly armored soldiers that were
trained for patrol, guard, and monitor duty.
Their armor was sort of like a combination
of regular stormtrooper armor, snowtrooper
armor, and scout trooper armor.
Their primary weapon was the E-11 blaster
rifle.
Fourth are the Imperial Marines.
They were primary stationed on Imperial naval
warships and Star Destroyers.
They utilized cutting lasers and explosive
charges to breach enemy vessels, and were
generally the first to board on captured starships.
Their primary weapons included an E-11 blaster
rifle and a MiniMag PTL missile launcher.
Fifth are the heavy stormtroopers, also known
as heavy weapons stormtroopers.
They wore slightly better armor than regular
armor and were armed with a rapid-fire blaster.
The weight of their armor and blaster limited
their mobility.
Sixth are the Imperial heavy troopers, not
to be confused with the heavy stormtroopers
previously.
These soldiers were large warriors that were
trained for melee combat.
They were highly trained, and were capable
of killing even a force user in close combat.
Their armor provided limited protection from
lightsabers, and their weapon of choice were
electro staffs.
Seventh are the Field stormtroopers, also
known as field troopers.
They were higher ranking stormtroopers with
superior field experience and weaponry.
They were recognizable by their multi-colored
pauldrons, which related to what their expertise
were.
Orange pauldrons were equipped with E-11 blaster
rifles, Yellow pauldrons were equipped with
rail detonators, and Red pauldrons were equipped
with Imperial Repeater Rifles.
Eighth are the Stormtrooper Commanders.
They were regarded as the Empire’s best
soldiers, and had command over most other
soldiers, even Shadow Troopers.
They wore upgraded armor that had blue markings.
They were equipped with blaster cannons.
Ninth are the Armored Stormtroopers.
They are distinguishable by their heavy armor,
orange shoulder pads, and a red monocle-like
device on their right eye.
They were also known to utilize heavy weapons.
Tenth are the Clone Stormtroopers.
They were Jango Fett Clones from the Clone
Wars who became the very first Stormtroopers.
Although they possessed the same armor and
weapons as regular Human stormtroopers, they
typically performed better than them due to
their superior training and vast experience
from the Clone Wars.
They would slowly be replaced by regular Human
stormtroopers and would end up being a small
minority in the Imperial military in the later
years of the Galactic Empire.
Eleventh are the Imperial Coruscant Guards.
They had similar duties to the previous Republic
Coruscant Guards, which included protecting
government buildings and policing the Senate
District.
They wore distinctive crimson red heavy armor
that protected them from a majority of weapons
they were expected to encounter.
Their helmets also allowed them to see in
complete darkness.
Twelfth are the Stormsnipers, also known as
Stormtrooper snipers.
They specialized in the use of long range
weapons, especially snipers.
They wore a blue pauldron and sometimes had
a black bandolier strapped across their chest
plate.
Thirteen are the Sniper troopers, not to be
confused with the Stormsnipers seen previously.
Sniper troopers were trained to effectively
use the E-11s sniper rifle and wore gray scout
trooper armor.
Fourteenth are the Crowd Control Stormtroopers.
They specialized in suppressing crowds and
crushing uprisings.
Their crowd control equipment allowed them
to easily fend off large crowds.
They were also equipped with a thruster pack,
which mounted a heavy blaster module, a capture
claw, and a supercharged taser.
Fifteenth are the Death Troopers.
These troopers were undead stormtroopers accidentally
created by an Imperial biological weapon codenamed
Blackwing.
They possessed only primitive feral instincts
but were able to communicate and learn from
each other through what seemed like unintelligible
screeching.
Despite being zombies, they still were able
to use weapons and perform tasks they possessed
before they turned into zombies.
Last for Part 4 are the Guardsmen Stormtroopers,
also known as the Emperor’s Royal Guard
wearing stormtrooper armor.
They were used for field operations that required
special combat armor.
This armor was vastly better than regular
stormtrooper armor.
Because they were a part of the Royal Guard,
these soldiers had excellent training in combat.
Thanks for watching the last part of this
series.
We will be doing a similar series for clone
troopers and other star wars factions, as
well as go over other Imperial branches like
the Imperial Navy branch.
I hope you guys enjoyed this series, and let
us know in the comments what other factions
you want us to do a similar series on!